Improved Charts styling docs. (#1284)
vaadin/docs: articles/ds/components/charts/css-styling.asciidoc

---
title: Chart Styling
order: 6
layout: page
---

[[charts.styling]]
= Chart Styling

Charts can be styled using CSS, and in Flow applications also through the Java API.
Vaadin Charts also has a number of built-in theme variants.

.Both CSS and Java styling cannot be used in the same chart
[CAUTION]
While no error is thrown if different styling methods are used in the same chart, *only one method should be used in any chart*, since having both could lead to unexpected results.

== Theme Variants
The following theme variants are available for Charts:

* Default colors (based on the Lumo or Material theme)
* Gradient variant with colors varying in hue (`theme="gradient"` / `ChartVariant.LUMO_GRADIENT` / `MATERIAL_GRADIENT`)
* Monotone variant with colors varying in brightness (`theme="monotone"` / `ChartVariant.LUMO_MONOTONE` / `MATERIAL_MONOTONE`)
* Classic variant with colors matching those in older versions (`theme="classic"` / `ChartVariant.LUMO_CLASSIC` / `MATERIAL_CLASSIC`)

A demo of the variants can be seen <<index#charts.overview,here>>.

== Java Styling

> Java styling mode is the default styling mode for Charts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default styling mode is the Java API.
```

Author: Maybe even better / more precise: _The default styling mode in Flow applications uses the Java API._ ?

Reviewer: Sure, that sounds good. I mainly got caught up with the "styling mode is the default styling mode", and wanted to avoid that repetition somehow.

Please see the link:https://vaadin.com/api/platform/com/vaadin/flow/component/charts/model/style/package-summary.html[Java API reference] for details.

[[css.styling]]
== CSS Styling

> Styling Charts with CSS works similarly to other Vaadin components: create a `vaadin-charts.css` file in your theme’s `components` folder, and place the styles there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Styling Charts with CSS works similarly to other Vaadin components: create a [filename]#vaadin-charts.css# file in your theme’s [filename]#components# folder, and place the styles there.
```

> (It’s also possible to use the `@CssImport` annotation to load the stylesheet in Flow applications).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It’s also possible to use the [annotationname]`@CssImport` annotation to load the stylesheet in Flow applications.
```

See link:https://www.highcharts.com/docs/chart-design-and-style/style-by-css[HighCharts styling documentation] for details on CSS styling of Charts.

=== CSS Styling Mode for Flow
Flow applications can use CSS styling by enabling "styled mode" in the Chart configuration:

[source,java]
----
Chart chart = new Chart();
Configuration conf = chart.getConfiguration();
conf.getChart().setStyledMode(true);
----

=== CSS Styling Example

> In this example CSS is used to color point markers yellow and data labels red.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example CSS is used to change the color of point markers to yellow and data labels to red.
```

> [source,css]
> .`custom-chart-styles.css`

Reviewer: For consistency, we should keep the order of the title and the source code block the same across all docs.

```suggestion
.`custom-chart-styles.css`
[source,css]
```

* Monotone variant with colors varying in brightness (`theme="monotone"` / `ChartVariant.LUMO_MONOTONE` / `MATERIAL_MONOTONE`)
* Classic variant with colors matching those in older versions (`theme="classic"` / `ChartVariant.LUMO_CLASSIC` / `MATERIAL_CLASSIC`)

> A demo of the variants can be seen <<index#charts.overview,here>>.

Reviewer: Avoid "click here" type of link text. Feel free to come up with another variation, this is just my first suggestion.

```suggestion
See a <<index#charts.overview,demo of the variants>>.
```

}
----

> [source,java]
> .`CssStyleExample.java`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.`CssStyleExample.java`
[source,java]
```

}
----

> [source,css]
> .`huge-axis.css`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.`huge-axis.css`
[source,css]
```
